---
title: "2019 Prognostications"
layout: post
date: 2019-01-22
---

2019 has started and just like every year over at [KOPN Tech
Radio](https://www.kopn.org/programs/tech-radio/) it's time to get this
year's predictions and prognostications going. Here are my top tech
predictions for 2019:

<!-- more -->

## Bitcoin and Crypto Currencies Will Raise Again

This raise will be pushed by developments in blockchain based applications.
There has been a lot of exploration of the use of blockchain-based systems
in the industry.  Some examples are uses in the Shipping industry and the
AAIS using a hyperledger based system to streamline state-required
reporting.

As blockchain based applications become more ubiquitous, speculation about
crypto currencies will also raise. More importantly, blockchain based
applications will also translate (in some cases) to use cases for crypto
currencies, thus moving crypto currencies back from a speculation
instrument to something with intrinsic value.

## The A.I./Machine Learning Winter is Coming. 

Over the last couple of years there has been a lot of growth in Machine
Learning, and a lot of success in that area. However, there are a couple of
factors that will curb the enthusiasm surrounding Machine Learning.

One of the issues facing Machine Learning is that as it's popularity grows,
the average quality of it's practitioners goes done. We are already seeing
corporate consulting companies peddling standard statistical analysis
packages as "Machine Learning" and failing to deliver on their promises.
Another example of this deterioration is that with the large number of
vacant "Machine Learning" position any one that has completed a Tensorflow
tutorial can now call them self a Machine Learning
Researcher/Engineer/Practitioner.

Another factor facing Machine Learnings growth is that (IMHO) we are
reaching the limits of what can be done given our current tools and
paradigms. The [No Free Lunch Theorem](http://no-free-lunch.org/) makes is
clear that there is no "Universal Learner" and the better an algorithm is
at solving one problem, the worse it is at solving another.

In all, with declining quality of machine learning practitioners, the
industry investments under performing and reaching the theoretical limits
of our current systems, the AI/Machine Learning hype will die down once
again.

## The Web Will Become Both More Open and More Closed

In the public eye [Facebook's Cambridge Analytica
scandal](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2018/03/facebook_and_ca.html)
has brought to light the enormous effects of social media on society. The
GDPR has attempted to provide a solution to this problem, and at the very
least has put some limits in place on social media and advertising
companies. All of these forces have created a demand for more
socially-concious online platforms.

At the same time, and predicting the issues currently facing online
platforms, The W3C published
[ActivityPub](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitypub/) as a recommendation.
Since then there has been an explosion of applications that support
ActivityPub, seemingly re-opening the gates to a federated, free and
censorship resistant internet.

ActivityPub is just a small part of a growing trend towards more open,
secure and distributed protocols and systems. [The
Fediverse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fediverse) has a Wikipedia entry
and Techcrunch published a story calling [Facebook the new
crapwar](https://techcrunch.com/2019/01/09/facebook-is-the-new-crapware/).
Socially conscious services like DuckDuckGo and ProtonMaill are seeing
[promising growth in traffic](https://duckduckgo.com/traffic).

On the other hand, [Snapchat is the fastest growing social
network](https://www.adweek.com/digital/snapchat-is-the-fastest-growing-social-network-infographic/)
and arguably the most closed, invasive, advertiser friendly and user
hostile social network. Also despite (or maybe because of) the public
outcry against the harms of social media, the use of social media has
[continued to raise in developing
countries](https://assets.pewresearch.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2018/06/15135408/Pew-Research-Center_Global-Tech-Social-Media-Use_2018.06.19.pdf)
but has plateaued in developed countries. One important point to note from
that report is that social media users in developing countries are flocking
to the same, closed, advertiser friendly, social media platforms that have
reached saturation in the developed world.

Finally, those pushing for "The Fediverse" do not (or rarely) use Facebook
and Snapchat. They have the means and the know how to setup their own mail
servers and the personal beliefs to make then use Signal and travel in
circles where their peers use Signal. This is in stark contrast to the
majority of users who flock to convenience. The technological and social
disconnect between the The Facebooker and The Fediverse will only cause the
differences between them to grow. 

## Interactive Content Will Raise

This has already come true thanks to Netflix's Bandersnatch, but you can
expect to see much more interactive content on display in the near future.
With video content migrating from broadcast television to app based
streaming platforms and apps, interactivity with the viewer is becoming
more and more of an option.

It's not hard to imagine YouTube, Hulu and Amazon offering interactive
options in their apps and players for their content producers. These
options could range from Netflix's choose your own adventure menu all the
way to being able to traverse the scene ala. YouTube's 3D video.

Just like video content enabled whole new media formats, like the game show
and the 24-hour news cycle, interactive video content will also open the
doors for new media formats as well.
